# Elective-in-AI-1
Final Project for the subject Elective in AI1.

In order to maintain the quality of the manufactured products the identification and elimination of defects in products are
crucial. Over the years industries have developed manual inspection techniques to maintain the quality of goods but with the
advent of automation, manual inspection is becoming infeasible. The amount of production is humongous, which makes
it hard to look for small defects, often resulting in poor quality assurance. The automation of industries also led to the
generation of enormous data for the produced entities, which can be used for anomaly or defect detection. The main problem
with this data is that it is either imbalanced or not fully annotated. Many Deep learning models have been developed to
reduce the need for annotated data, and are robust to imbalanced data, some of them are trained on fully defect-free images
(unsupervised) and others on weakly or loosely labeled data (weakly supervised). However, these models still have limited
accuracy compared to fully supervised methods. Although defects can be of any type, in this paper, we will be talking about
surface defects only and the term will be used interchangeably with defects. The proposed method is trained on the weakly
labeled imbalanced dataset and achieves comparable accuracy to state-of-the-art methods, using mixed supervision learning.
In this paper, we proposed a model that uses two separate networks, to detect surface defects. The network-I creates purely
the non-defective images from random input noise under the supervision of the inputted image, the network-II takes the
absolute pixel difference of the inputted image and the generated one to decide whether the image is defective. The main
focus of this method is to identify defective images, rather than specifically locating them. We tested and produced the
evaluation results of our method on the KolektorSDD2 dataset.

Highlights
• This paper will be introducing the approach of using the GAN along with CNN for defect detection.
• We used the absolute pixel loss to enhance and stabilize the training of GAN.
• The architecture consists of two sub-networks.
• Network-I is trained on non-defective images and Network-II has been trained on both defective and non-defective images.
• The results generated by this approach are highly encouraging
